we love complex thought-provoking video
game bad guys as much as the next person
but sometimes the best villains are just
the ones that are the most intimidating
you know the real over to the Top Evil
badass bad guys for different reasons we
got a lot of cool villains to talk about
today in games so let's get started off
with number  it's Adam Smasher from
cyberp Punk  you know he's bad news
the second you see him he he doesn't
actually appear all that much and
doesn't even speak too much but he still
manages to leave a huge impression just
on account of his massive stature and
sociopathic Behavior seriously this guy
shows up in person like two times total
in the game three if you count the
silver hand flashback
but [ __ ] that's Adam
Smasher he's a small presence in the
game but his lack of appearances almost
adds to his intimidating Aura there are
no near escapes to just make him look
weaker no characterization to make us
identify with him he's just a monster of
a man who exists purely to make life
miserable for you he's a looming threat
that's just hanging over the entire game
that doesn't really get paid off until
the end everyone's always talking about
Adam Smasher in the game building up his
reputation as pure evil but you only
really get a taste of it when you first
meet him here he's only ever seen
through a security mod Monitor and like
through someone else's eyes and he has
like one line total but that's all we
need just look at him that's last boss
material and no surprise that's exactly
what he is you know you see a cybernetic
tank like Adam Smasher here and you want
to know what this guy's deal is and the
game tells you but never directly they
make sure to retain his uh Mystique for
the entire story up until you finally
take him out at the end he's a villain
where less is actually more you don't
need to see him do anything to know this
is just a scary dude but if you do want
to see Smasher in action then uh uh the
Cyber Punk anime Edge Runners does
really do a good job of portraying just
how much of a killing machine this guy
can really be
Smasher told you Johnny Boy told you I'd
end you
someday now over at number nine does
anybody remember the bad guy from the
first Uncharted he's just like a dollar
store Bellic uh he doesn't even like
leave much of an impression but in the
sequel clearly they wanted to step
things up you know from your generic
evil treasure hunter in the first game
to this guy Zoran lazarovich The
Towering monster of a man with an entire
Army at his beck and call now a little
bit of a step up from the Pirates in the
first game lazarovich is the perfect bad
guy foil for Nathan Drake he's this
brutal uncompromising Tyrant who
actually manages to create an erir of
danger whenever he shows up in person
because they had the will to do what
other men would
not compassion is the enemy Mercy
defeats us his mere presence cuts
through the you know usually kind of
goofy world of Uncharted things get
serious when this dude shows up and even
Nathan Drake can't like you know
Charisma his way out of it he's a
ridiculous character of course really
over the top just like a total
megalomaniac who praises Hitler and
Stalin and popot as like the best guys
Graham McTavish just sells every line
this guy says the voice actor really
crushes it here his intensity really
sells the role and and makes what
otherwise would be kind of a schlocky
bad guy pretty memorable probably like
one of the best in the series he still
does the usual like action game action
movie Bad Guy blunders he catches Drake
several times only to then let him get
away but this time the good guys feel
like they have to work for it a little
harder and of course you can't talk
about this guy with at least mentioning
his final pain in the ass boss fight
he's not just an unfair boss he's
probably like we said one of the best
bad guys in the Uncharted series he's
got the perfect amount of Hamming and
genuine pure menace to keep things fun
but adds a sense of danger to the
adventure that just wasn't in the first
game hold your fire hold your
fire he's
mine sorry pal you're not my
type next over at number eight uh
Indiana Jones and the great circle light
spoiler warning here but you know if
there's one thing the developers machine
games really know how to do it's how to
make a good Nazi villain that you love
to hate the Wolfenstein games turned
that into like an art form that was just
like a Non-Stop Cavalcade of the most
despicable characters in gaming like
cartoonishly grotesque so for their
Indiana Jones game the studio managed to
conjure up all their powers to make what
may be like the platonic idea of a Nazi
movie bad guy it it takes a while to
actually finally meet up with this
antagonist he doesn't show up until the
end of the Vatican Hub really which is
quite long but man he makes a hell of a
first impression emri Voss here uh
leader of the Nazi special Antiquities
division is both a physical and mental
threat who excels at psychological
manipulation to get what he wants the
thing about this guy is that he thinks
he's so damn smart but his manipulation
tactics are clearly as blunt and cruel
as possible so they only work on other
idiots or people who were easily
manipulated people who get methodically
broken down by Voss until you know they
give in the impressive thing about Voss
is that he's a clown you know he's like
this pringy little freak that thinks
he's way smarter and cooler than he is
but he still manages to be a scary
presence because he's like a monster
pretending to be a human he looks like
if a marionette came to life with like
inhuman movement he's very stiff he's
got this canny alien smile and he
actually seems like he poses an
intellectual threat to Indiana Jones
there's a couple of scenes in the game
where the two kind of spar with one
another in terms of their you know
encyclopedic knowledge of ancient
history it's cool to see yes give me
your expert opinion Dr Jones what about
arcarum this is not kful yet some of bit
looks like a cber not an abet
interesting now there's clearly a fully
representational figure here you blind
very well but then how do you explain
the Triangular
lines this is far beyond your
understanding Dr Jones archaic surian
predat earliest known Egyptian
hieroglyphs by centuries
you it's a
damic isn't it so for as much as Voss
ends up being like the butt of the joke
suffering a lot of indignities over the
course of the whole Adventure he still
manages to be intimidating despite
everything because you never really
quite get one over on him it's always
like one step forward two steps back
with this guy at least until his
inevitable and extremely satisfying
demise now over at number seven with the
Resident Evil games the bad guys are
either string beanly little scientists
or mindless biom monsters with very
little in between it's not to say that
the series doesn't have its fair share
of great and iconic villains because it
does from my man Albert Wesker to m Mr X
to Nemesis and more there's a lot of
awesome and scary villains to pick from
in the series but the most intimidating
probably going to be the patriarch or
the baker estage The Laughing lunatic
himself Jack Baker what makes this guy
so scary compared to the other Resident
Evil baddies is that he's not too cool
for school and he's not this mindless
insane monster either he's just like a
horror movie he's just the pure
malevolence who Delights in torturing
and killing anyone foolish enough to
stumble into his house of horrors
gameplay-wise that also makes it even
more effective he's this unkillable
stalker who chases you around the halls
but what makes him so intimidating is
that he doesn't just want to kill you he
wants to play with you he wants to make
you suffer so he's not going to kill you
quick he's going to make it seem like
you're safe only to suddenly smash
through a wall and shatter any sense of
security you probably had he's going to
cut off your leg and then like give it
back to you for some reason just to give
you a chance like compared to your
average Resident Evil freak this guy is
a lot more to understand he's a little
bit more complicated you know other than
the the palet skin and dead eyes he
mostly appears human but as it quickly
becomes clear this guy isn't just your
average horror game Unstoppable thing
he's literally Immortal and can
regenerate from nearly any damage so he
doesn't even avoid it he Revels in
destroying his own body just to scare
you it's
cool gowhere
you wasted your
time every fight with this guy is a
master class in making an intimidating
boss if you try to Ram him with a car he
just climbs on tops and starts
controlling the car with you inside
he'll set himself on fire he'll cut off
his own limbs he doesn't care he doesn't
even seem all that interested in killing
you he's mostly just here for the fun of
it he is the closest thing we're going
to get to like a deadite from Evil Dead
in a Resident Evil game equal parts
Goofy and scary in the best possible
ways now over at number six the story of
the Far Cry games is split between two
eras really before and after Far Cry 
For Better or Worse Far Cry  defined
what the series would be going forward
an open world firstperson action game
with a big showcase villain the funny
thing is I don't think Ubisoft quite
knew what they actually had first with
Far Cry  you know it was really only
later when the game was finally starting
to come together did everyone
collectively realize how lucky they were
that they got Michael mandow for the
role of Vos Montenegro the pirate leader
and boss of the first island in Far Cry
 I only say that you know they didn't
know what they had because if they did
vas would have been the main bad guy
they wouldn't have unceremoniously
killed him off halfway through they
actually would have made him the central
antagonist like like they ended up doing
for every game after this one for as
great as some of the bad guys are in
later games in the series nothing else
quite manages to capture that lightning
in a bottle they had with Vos seriously
Michael Mando great actor in a lot of
things and he crushes it
here that is crazy I like this phone
this is nice [ __ ]
phone so what do we have here
grants and
Jason California h Huh
I hope your mama and your papa really
really love you because you two white
boys you look very expensive and that's
good because I like expensive
things I'm sorry what did you say what
did you say do you want me to slice you
open like I did your friend shut the
[ __ ]
up okay I'm the one with a [ __ ] dick
this character is pure Livewire
unpredictable intensity he seems like he
can and will snap at any moment the way
he constantly gets in your face while
speaking and monologuing not menacing
exactly but weirdly rushed and off
kilter he's just a guy you know there's
something wrong with and if he catches
you then things are going to get ugly he
only shows up in person like four times
total but every time he does it's
intense and really awesome there's a lot
of bad guys like Voss in Far Cry  guys
that get up in your face and go on
long-winded monologues and demonstrate
how evil they are but Voss is the
standout and and and most of that comes
down to Performance and the excellent
animation that like manages to catch
every little detail in The brilliantly
Eccentric performance even though he's
killed halfway through and was just one
bad guy among many he made such a
statement and that's why he earns a spot
on this list next over at number five
koten KH from Ghost of sushima this
guy's just about everything you could
want in a good bad guy he's physically
imposing he's calculating intimidating
and isn't above using whatever dirty
tricks he can to get his way which is
made abundantly clear in the opening
that that first scene tells you
everything you need to know about koten
KH he seems like he's just a Mindless
warlord but he's smart offering an olive
branch in one hand and a sword in the
other he promises Mercy to those that
submit and eternal suffering to those
that oppose him which kind of forces
friends to fight friends as people grow
more desperate under this guy on an
island where everyone is obsessed with
honor all the KH Wants To Do Is Win and
that's what makes him so scary he wears
the coat of an honorable enemy but when
push comes to shove he'll do anything to
conquer this island and kill the ghost
who's interfering with his schames he's
a villain that can be the devil on your
shoulder and the guy who will just
straight up wreck you in a fair fight
he's a dangerous Warrior and a guy who
will play psychological games on his
captives he's just constantly dangerous
and unpredictable and that's what makes
him so
intimidating now at number four Darth
Vader I mean what do I need to say is
Darth Vader it's an all-time classic
villain that has been misused in the
past but when they know how to use him
right especially in video games he still
is one of the all-time best to ever do
it and by it I mean uh be scary and use
a lightsaber sure there's plenty we can
talk about Anakin Skywalker with him
being a badass if you really want to
think about it but you know really once
the MCH is on we're talking OG Trilogy
the guy was scoring wins left and right
I'm pretty sure the only fight he ever
lost was against his own son and that's
actually kind of badass and it was
probably cuz he was going easy on him
okay now in the Jedi series by respawn
that is Jedi Fallen order and Jedi
Survivor they make old Darth Vader the
terrifying presence he was always meant
to be showing up at the worst possible
moments to wreak havoc and leave the
heroes reeling in Fallen order they save
him for the very end after defeating the
final boss the second
sister that doesn't look good it isn't
it's
him Darth Vader just shows up and
absolutely reeks havoc on the secret
underwater base of the Inquisition the
game practically feels like a horror
game for this last little bit there's
literally nothing you can do against him
and you only manage to escape by double
teaming him and even that's still enough
it was just enough to hold him off
really
surrender the
holocron I'll never give it to you we
shall see
and in the second game Darth Vader gets
an unequivocal win in the hardest boss
fight in the game where even when you
win you still lose he comes bursting in
right when it seems like the story is
over wrecks everything and then leaves
the rest of the story and shambles so
all that's left is to pick up the pieces
and really that's good use of Darth
Vader moving forward I mean they did it
in Rogue one they had him show up do
some scary [ __ ] and leave it's like the
Star Wars Universe you know you know
he's out there you know he's in power
it's just a matter of time whether or
not you'll see him these games show
Darth Vader at the height of his powers
and he is pure intimidation
now down at number three The Legend of
Zelda series look for like what is
normally such a cartoony kind of
kid-friendly series should always gets
real when Ganondorf shows up his true
Menace first appeared in Ocarina of Time
for the Nintendo  where even with such
rudimentary Graphics the music the
presentation the entire atmosphere
around him told you that this guy was a
badass
the trend continued into all the
follow-ups ganon's appearance in
Twilight Princess especially just oozes
Menace for the brief moments he's
actually present
another game that saves ganon's Best For
Last is Wind Waker where he doesn't even
transform into his iconic pig monster
form but uh instead fights you manto man
after giving this haunting
speech tears of the Kingdom brings Ganon
back yet again and this may be his best
appearance yet with a full backstory and
one of the most epic and challenging
Final Bosses in the whole series's
history Ganon is only ever a small part
of these games but he always leaves a
big impression whenever he finally
actually shows
himself is that all
now down at number two Metal Gear Solid
 Snake Eater one of my favorite games
let's talk Colonel vulgan this guy is
just the worst like there is nothing
redeeming about this guy every scene he
appears in he's either torturing abusing
or just straight up murdering someone
you know how there's like the standard
torture sequences that in these games
you know usually they're pretty
straightforward snake gets strapped to a
big chair and gets electrocuted for a
while it's still intense but they're
nothing compared to the torture scene in
this one Metal Gear Solid  where vulgan
first beats the absolute crap out of
snake and then tortures him mercilessly
in one of the most intense sequences in
the entire Series this guy is seriously
messed up we'd be here all day just
trying to live his crimes his
manipulation the way he talks to people
everything Colonel even if they are our
enemies they're still our countrymen but
it won't be me that pulled the
trigger it'll be our friend the American
Defector you're going to Nuke your
fellow
Russians remember the
Alo
Colonel he's so bad so it's very
intensely satisfying when you finally
kill him
Metal Gear Solid  does the smart thing
by giving you a sympathetic villain in
the boss someone who knows the
protagonist personally and is a complex
and conflicted bad guy but then they
also have vulgan this unrepentant
scumbag who raises the stakes just by
being around and who you just want to
see dead and he works perfectly
now down at number one SEO listen these
days seph Ro is like a scen as more of a
pretty boy anime punch line than a
serious bad guy but if you go back to
the original Final Fantasy  back when
it first came out that guy is
legitimately scary in the game remember
the first time he appeared he shows up
completely out of left field at the top
of Shinra Tower where you follow a trail
of blood to the president's office only
to find him dead his next major
appearance is uh that big flashback
where seph goes insane and burns the
village down in one of the most iconic
moments in video game history you've
probably seen it you know the the image
of seph walking through the fire with
his big ass sword with his Sinister as
hell theme song plays man that just like
is burned into all of our
memories what happens next you find the
midgar Zola or serpent impaled on a tree
its blood sprayed everywhere uh these
are scenes straight out of a horror
movie not an RPG and they give the
original Final Fantasy  a layer of
tension and mystery and mood that a lot
of other RPGs just don't have yeah he's
got big white flowing hair he's handsome
he's got a cartoonishly long sword but
he was scary as hell back in the day
like % of it comes down to his music
though I will say that that's that theme
still sends shivers down my spine wo
when you hear his theme something bad is
going to happen you count on
it but my friends those are  very
intimidating video game bad guys you
know there are a lot more out there we
can only ever cram so many on one list
so let us know your picks in the
comments we'd love to make more of these
but if you like talking video games with
us every single day clicking the like
button helps us that's all you got to do
but that's it thanks for watching and
we'll see you guys next time