for decades now in video games you've
seen this happen a game is revealed and
the gaming public is skeptical a lot of
people look at a video game and think it
might fail think it might be a stinker
uh the gaming public the gaming press
media whatever gaming enthusiasts often
tend to look at games and think ah that
one might suck but today we're talking
about  games that were expected to
fail but ended up turning things around
and becoming cult or even Mega hits so
let's get started off with number  The
Witcher yes before CD project red
decided to make a game based off of the
you know well regarded at the time but
mostly unknown to people outside of
Poland Witcher novels and short stories
there had actually already been one
failed attempt to adapt the dark fantasy
world into a video game that project
fell through because the publisher
assumed that because the West didn't
know about The Witcher that the games
would fail so it was canceled by a
publisher topwear later on in the mid
s
project approached the author for the
rights to the series to make a game and
even he assumed this whole thing would
be a failure initially the developers
offered sekowski the author uh a
percentage of the profits of the game
for the rights but he refused assuming
that the game would just never make any
money so he just asked for a lump sum
instead he ended up selling the rights
to the entire Witcher franchise for just
under
$, which probably looked like a
pretty good deal back then thinking it
would be set up to fail but man Looking
Back Now with like the cultural
Juggernaut the franchise has become in
the gaming and also you know the fantasy
world it's a crazy small number ,
bucks if he had taken the percentage of
the profits he'd be a probably wealthier
man than he is now I mean he still has
hit novels and short stories but still
he just didn't believe that the game
would be a success now looking at that
first game in the series it's hard to
imagine how big this series would end up
being but it it's not like the first
game was a big failure or anything it
actually ended up being quite profitable
for the studio the original version of
this game was rough like really rough it
was buggy and the translation was pretty
poor but the bones of a really good game
were there that's where the enhanced
Edition comes in it was one of the first
of its kind this total overhaul of a
flawed but interesting game which did a
lot to cement CD project Red's
commitment to Quality I mean at least
eventual quality uh their games are
often messy when they come out but they
get fixed it's not just always a
cyberpunk thing this was going on way
back in  in a way the important
takeaway though is that the original
Witcher while you know far from The
Runaway success of The Witcher  ended
up being a cult hit on its own probably
just down to the relative scarcity of
these types of RPG experiences at the
time people were hungry for more still
before release their expectations of
success were not high to quote the
writer of the books there will not be
profit at all give me all my money right
now the whole amount it was stupid I was
stupid enough to leave everything in
their hands because I didn't believe in
their success but who could foresee
their success I couldn't well I guess
you live and you learn
next over at number nine Demon Souls yes
the game is considered legendary now but
leading up to release and around the
time it came out opinions kind of
oscillated between mixed and negative
nobody in the game development sphere
seemed to really understand what they
were dealing with here the game flew in
the face of many of the accepted design
principles at the time where games were
getting more streamlined and easier to
understand this game was obtuse it was
strange and it had a lot of confusing
and outright player hostile systems it
was also extremely challenging with a
very punishing death mechanic where if
you died you'd lose half your health bar
in the next run so you can see how
certain people just wouldn't get it uh
apparently shui Yoshida the president of
Sony's worldwide Studios at the time
keep in mind Sony was fr's publishing
partner at the time the game was meant
to be Sony's answer to Sky but the
project was floundering and that's when
Miyazaki came in and did his thing in
terms of leadership and then the rest is
history so he's on the record shui
Yoshida like had the chance to play the
game and his Impressions at first were
not good he said and I quote this is
crap this is an unbelievably bad game
not the sort of thing you want to hear
from someone high up like that that
along with the perception that the game
wouldn't sell was why Sony decided not
to bring the game over to the West there
was already a lot of fan interest in the
game the hardcore crowd was interested
it was already available in English so
it was an import favorite and then it
became a bit of a cult hit based on the
Imports alone it took a little while but
eventually Bandai officially released
the game in North America where it
managed to make a decent amount of money
of course there's a learning curve it
had an uphill battle some people even
when they played it still just didn't
get it but it did well enough that they
green lit a spiritual sequel called Dark
Souls and then of course man you know
the rest is history
now over at number eight uh it's rare to
see a game get canceled so close to the
Finish Line it's like if they've already
dedicated years and years and millions
of dollars in people's time and work
into a game's development they might as
well release something to recoup your
losses but apparently Activision thought
that this true crime Hong Kong game was
was such a failure that they had no
choice but to cut their losses even
though the game was nearly finished yes
that's right true crime Hong Kong
eventually became sleeping dogs but
rewinding a little bit before that it's
not often that you get a comment on a
game cancellation just as blunt and to
the point as the one from Activision's
publishing CEO at the time Eric herberg
who said that and I quote even our most
optimistic projections show that
continued investment was not going to
lead to a little or near the top of the
competitive open world genre in an
industry where only the best games in
each category are flourishing to be
blunt it just wasn't going to be good
enough so that's Activision straight up
saying that they think the game was
going to suck or at least you know be a
whiff a flounder a flop whatever so when
the game was miraculously saved by
Square Enix I don't think it would be
unfair to assume that this was going to
be a Duke Nukem Forever situation where
a game that everyone thought was dead
finally gets released only for everyone
to then collectively realize that it
probably should have stayed cancelled
but that is not the case for Sleeping
Dogs of course like I said Square Enix
pivoted it from True Crime Hong Kong to
this and this game Sleeping Dogs was
really good not just good it was great
it was one of the best open world action
games of the era it's had its own unique
identity combat systems feel and it
managed to sell decently well and has
been like re-released a bunch of times
you know maybe not at the insane level
activ expected they were probably
looking for a Grand Theft Auto or a Call
of Duty but it was far from a commercial
or critical
[Music]
faer kill
him next over at number seven Xenoblade
Chronicles yes the jrpg classic Almost
Never made its way to the west or or or
showed up in North America yeah it seems
like Nintendo just didn't think it would
land of course now in hindsight that
looks absolutely silly because Xenoblade
Chronicles is probably one of Nintendo's
star RPG franchises it's gone on to make
tons of games spin-offs show up in Super
Smash Brothers you name it but earlier
on with Zeno Blade Chronicles it seems
like Nintendo was really skeptical and
really had to be pushed to release it
outside of Japan then Europe and then
eventually finally North America uh
there's a great quote from the kit and
Christa podcast uh they of course had
previously worked at Nintendo the quote
is there was a team at Nintendo that
made these sorts of decisions that we
were not a part of that was a very
executive heavy group and they would
analyze the market and the potential
audience size it was like flipping a
coin sometimes these were the right
decisions sometimes they weren't and in
the case of Xenoblade Chronicles not
planning a North American release is
pretty crazy considering like even the
original Xenoblade Chronicles was
probably a pretty big production and
they really wanted to recoup things
still thankfully fans campaigned
seemingly I guess some people at
Nintendo campaigned and eventually we
got Xenoblade Chronicles in the west and
the rest was history it wasn't the
cleanest launch or the cleanest path to
get there but now we're here
everyone oh yeah
[Music]
baby next over at number six Sonic
Frontiers Sonic Frontiers is an
interesting one because when it was
first revealed it did not look so hot
and then once influencers and gaming
press and people got their hands on a
preview version of the game at summer
gamefest it was iffy opinions were
really mixed a lot of the internet was
pretty harsh on just the overall look
and visuals of the game the worlds
looked Barren the textures the lighting
everything looked flat objects were just
floating in the sky it looked silly and
when playing the game I remember playing
a preview version of it I was pretty
mixed there was definitely some fun in
there but only playing the game for a
little bit like  minutes or so you can
only judge so much still I thought there
was enough there that Sonic fans would
absolutely love it and I was right Sonic
Frontiers released and it was a success
yes a flawed game not a perfect Sonic
game and honestly that's the case with
all Sonic games but still Sonic
Frontiers was well received and
seemingly sold very well despite the
harsh previews you know some websites
really ripping apart the game at First
Look it's seems like the team the
development team really turned things
around and released a pretty cool title
Sonic Frontiers may not be the number
one Sonic game but it was enjoyed by
fans and it seems like we're getting
more of it in the future so I count that
as a win
next over at number five we have Mad Max
from  Mad Max this game just really
had an uphill battle first they had been
trying to get a madmax game off the
ground for years God of War guy you know
the the brainchild behind God of War
 Cory barlog uh he actually was
working with madmax director George
Miller on a Mad Max game but eventually
that fell through they just couldn't
really get it together then finally when
this new version uh this Avalanche
developed Mad Max game finally hit the
scene you know pre-orders stuff like
that people weren't really sure what to
think for a couple of reasons I mean
first and foremost it's kind of a game
based on a movie and those don't always
have the best track record also it was
hard to compare to the absolutely
incredible Mad Max Fury Road this looked
nowhere near as cool as Fury Road still
that aside it also had the uphill battle
of releasing the same week as Metal Gear
Solid  the phantom Pain the game that a
lot of people were going to play So Mad
Max kind of fell to the Wayside that
being said it released and it was
actually really good and over time it
kind of bubbled up as a fan cult
favorite uh lots of people praised the
game user reviews were good content
creators are making videos I will say I
want my flowers at this point I have
been banging the war drum for this game
for years now I've made quite a few
videos about it I think it's absolutely
underrated and it seems like it's taken
off and it seems like we were not alone
people really enjoy the Mad Max game
it's not perfect you know it's not like
a  out of  incredible forever memor
thing but for some people and for some
Mad Max fans it is absolutely the
definitive Mad Max experience and it
scratches the right itches driving
around in a car in the Wasteland is so
much fun
here War
boy damn he's hard to
K next down at number four Metroid Prime
yes it's sounds crazy but the leadup to
Metroid Prime uh wasn't looking so hot
man this was definitely expected to fail
because think about it it was an
unproven American Studio working on
Metroid apparently development behind
the scenes was a nightmare it took the
game a long time to release and a lot of
people out there like to suggest that
Nintendo mostly just gave the project to
them because it didn't matter if they
screwed it up they weren't really
interested in Metroid at that point of
course Nintendo has had such a back and
forth with Metroid and General they
support it for years then they forget it
exists and uh yeah at this point they
were like here you go guys work on your
weird little Metroid game we'll see what
happens expectations were low across the
board especially once fans got a Whi
that they were taking a Metroid game and
making it a first person shooter that
honestly still sounds like blasphemy
absolute crazy talk you're talking about
a game that like invented a genre a sub
genre whatever you want to call it the
iconic series suddenly see seemly being
cynically converted to just another
Diamond dozen firstperson shooter
something that was very popular at the
time and somehow the team managed to
pull it off and made an incredible game
a beloved Metroid game that feels
distinctly Metroid plays distincly
Metroid while also happens to be one of
the best and most unique firstperson
shooter games ever look sometimes these
things these genre switch UPS or like a
you know a franchise moving to the st
century seem like impossible feats but
Metroid Prime is the perfect example of
a talented passionate group of people
really pulling it off and winning
everybody over this is a perfect example
of why I personally try not to judge
video games like a book by its cover
[Music]
everything is worth a shot everything is
worth evaluating that's why we talk
about games here like this but uh yeah
anyway Metroid Prime rules and we hope
four eventually releases let's just move
on to number three Doom from  was a
weird one at the time if you were very
plugged into gaming news people were
kind of iffy on this one it was really
just like the news Cycles were not very
kind to it first of all there were low
expectations just because Doom had been
dormant for years you know Doom three
while at the time kind of divisive
people really eventually came around to
it but you know there had been leaks of
a new Doom project where they were
trying to turn Doom into a Call of Duty
clone thankfully that project never got
off the ground but the fact that people
saw the leaks and saw that Bethesda was
even thinking of converting Doom to
something like that was pretty insulting
then when this new Doom  project
came around it was a time where people
were getting pretty contentious with
Bethesda as a publisher with
microtransactions and stuff like that
how they would state things plus uh they
really were only showing off the
multiplayer for this which sucked it it
wasn't really that great after release
it was fine but like it wasn't what
people really interested in they didn't
want to see you multiplayer and all the
little things you could do the things
you could potentially buy so everyone
assumed it would be crap because it
seems like they were afraid to show Too
Much single player they were kind of
quiet on a lot of the single player it
was like a less is more type of thing uh
they also didn't give out review copies
at the time Bethesda was refusing to
give any reviewer content creator
whoever early access to the game so a
reviewer or you know a streamer or a
YouTuber couldn't even give a player
base a heads up that the game would be
bad ahead of time but after all was said
and done it turned out to release and be
absolutely awesome Doom  is a
classic a lot of people were skeptical
you know especially just looking at
headlines at the time before release but
thankfully maybe we were all just a
little cranky Doom  is so
[Music]
awesome now down at number two just
another example of not really judging a
book by its cover it's Mario plus
Rabbids Kingdom battle first of all like
people were writing this off as junk
just because it was Ubisoft a lot of
people were fed up with Ubisoft games
plus it was a Mario collaboration with
the rabids a kind of spin-off from
Rayman a franchise that's pretty dormant
and Rabbids were kind of like bootleg
minions nobody really cared about them
they were trying to make them a thing
but I don't think a lot of people gave a
damn they were literally nobody's
favorite mascot teamed up with people's
favorite mascots Mario Luigi and Friends
plus put in into a weird like strategy
XCOM Style game where Mario and Luigi
and Peach get guns it's just a really
really weird Choice there was not a ton
of hype for this one just like weird
morbid curiosity but it released and
it's another one where the rest is
history I mean look at reviews look at
sales numbers Mario rabbit's Kingdom
battle is absolutely awesome incredible
music compelling gameplay great use of
the Mario Universe the Rabbids they're
they're still just the Rabbids they
still kind of suck but whatever the game
was so good it didn't matter it was a
damn good time and good enough that they
green lit a sequel so I think that
speaks for
[Music]
itself got you
[Music]
[Music]
a now finally down at number one the
Silent Hill  remake the developer bler
team it felt like everything was working
against them first of all they had never
made an action game before and uh the
last game they made before that the
medium it dealt with difficult themes
but it was kind of a dud it was kind of
middling and they also kind of had a
reputation among Silent Hill fans at
that point as copycats looking at the
medium some people felt that the medium
kind of ripped off silent hill I felt
like it was kind of like they were
advertising that they would want to make
a Silent Hill remake and blubber team as
a studio like some of their games were
good some of their games were not and
you know for a studio like that to take
on a legendary Silent Hill  remake
people were rightfully skeptical I
absolutely was I just wasn't sure if
they could handle the subtle themes of
Silent Hill  Silent Hill  is a very
delicate game made by a Japanese Studio
that felt like it was lightning in a
bottle How Could You recreate that plus
I was nervous and a lot of Gamers people
who had played the original Silent Hill
 felt like a couldn't quite be remade
let alone by blubber and especially once
they started showing off the game and we
we got glimpses of gameplay people
weren't really sure but thankfully the
game released and it was pretty damn
great even as early reviews were coming
out some people just didn't want to
believe it when I put out my review my
videos people were like no you're wrong
it's still going to be bad but then
people played it and sure enough it's
pretty damn good is it a perfect
Recreation of the original game no but
does it respect the original perfectly
in my opinion yes does it nail those
themes and that you know very very
subtle interesting fascinating story yes
I think blubber absolutely proved
themselves with this one a lot of people
were skeptical some people just wanted
this to downright fail but Silent Hill 
remake ended up nailing it do we know if
it's a cult hit or do we know if it's
like a a super success no not yet we
don't have like tons of sales numbers
but at the very least we were worried
about a game turning out bad and it
turned out to be pretty good and that's
the point of this
list stay back
is this what I saw in the so those are
 games that were expected to fail
either by fans or analysts or you know
the Press whoever uh but ended up
turning out to be pretty damn good if
you got more examples there are plenty
more out there this is kind of
subjective of course let us know your
thoughts let's talk anything about these
games and any other examples you got
down in the comments now if you like
this video and you like talking games
with us every day clicking the like
button is all you got to do it really
helps us out and if you're new consider
subscribing and hitting that
notification Bell because we put out
videos every single day man but as
always thanks for watching and we'll see
you guys next time